---
tags: ['TODO']
title: TODO Title
date: 2023-05-22
---

My Actual Favourite Except (From That Thing, Not In General)

"We Love The Willow For Its Weeping. For Analgesia's Sake, We Gave It Motive To Cry. It Bleeds Not For Itself, But So That Strangers Can Share In This Pain".

---

'Favourite quote, or excerpt?'

"If I could do anything, what would I do? Well, I would ask to do the hardest thing imaginable. I would ask to sit besides you, under the night sky, until the last star dissolved. And I would ask that I had the courage to not tell you how gorgeous you were, but stay perfectly silent.

For this single night, every lumen that the dying night gives way to, is darkness we'll never reclaim.

Every second you lose is a second gone, without an encore. Every single stroke of light on the glass dome above is a permanent fixture. And that's why one night is harder than forever.

I need the courage to willingly miss such a radiant hope, to willingly surrender Pandora's empty box. Without any time for a retry, and without any time to wait.

I turned to him, to you. Having said everything only in my head.

I knew I was too sick for a second night on the meadows. I suppose that I can do anything, anything at all, if I want.

If I could grant wishes, I would grant that we all died knowing this. And so I will bestow this gift upon myself that I die knowing it's so.

So instead of any statement of meaning, I unhinged my jaw. And I slurred out to him: 'if I could do anything, I suppose I would fly'."

'That sounds familiar...',

"We wrote it, fucking idiot".

