---
tags: ['TODO']
title: TODO Title
date: 2023-05-22
---

A fifteen minute walk in the torrential downpour saw her collapsed in the common space. Ironically named, as she proclaimed no one else ever saw the outside of their room. And I don't think she was in the habit of bringing friends home.  
I was barely halfway sober, but she'd barely left behind 'wasted'. And I think that's for the better because after how sick she'd been tonight, she deserved to quickly forget it. And after the slip of tongue I was about spill on out, I prayed she forget it she would.  
She talked me into staying, or so she had thought, the plan was always that I'd see my own way out once the sandman was here. And I was still hazy in my thoughts, but I'd stopped slurring and so my speech was so unfortunately clear.  
She spoke, as if to declare to me goodnight, "sleep here, we'll feel better in the morning",  
And I rebutted "or we can feel better tonight": quite impressively the worst fucking way to word the thing.  
The wine already turned her a little bit rosy, but for the first and last time, I saw her blush.  
My intent with that mistake of a sentence is that she make herself throw up, and we sober up, to talk away this final night. She was leaving in the morning. She could've caught the sleep she'd miss in that long haul of a flight.  
I had plans in the morning, but nothing that enough coffee couldn't let me brave. And that made is so many leagues more anticlimactic that I was leaving.  
She can't even stand, how is she going to follow my explanation? It was easier just to let her forget it, and wish her a safe flight.  
