---
tags: ['TODO']
title: TODO Title
date: 2023-05-22
---

Stranger's Are The Most Abundant Natural Resource In Winthrop  
In The Low Light You Looked Like Hazel  
A brunette in the streetlight,  
Had the same height and same build,  
The details of identity stayed blank  
For my mind to fill in.  
My eyesight dropped out,  
My lucidity in tandem,  
I found myself on the ground,  
With my palms paid as ransom.  
I wasn't phased by the crash,  
But instead the figure I saw.  
For my anxiety hit harder  
And was grating me raw.  
And on ending the fall,  
I felt like a paintstroke of lightning,  
Stuck inside of the burning,  
Of my dendrites eliding.  
I put my hand to my chest,  
To time my heartbeat,  
She had her flashlight whipped out,  
As I thought up a quiet retreat.  
But before I enacted,  
She held her hand out to me,  
Made an ironic remark:  
"The best cartwheel I'll ever see"  
I said she'd get blood on herself,  
She said she'll be grabbing my arm,  
I said she'd get blood on her jumper,  
But she insisted on helping me up.  
She asked for my health,  
I said I saw to it well,  
But the red handprinted shirt,  
Was the most obvious tell.  
I asked if she's free,  
For an hour or two,  
She told me that she  
Could spare me a few.  
I asked if she ate,  
She said she'll have dinner again,  
I told her "stay put,  
I'm gonna remeet you in 10".  
Pari was stuck in my head,  
I could her the dull drone,  
Said if I'm not looking for more,  
Then I should be staying at home.  
But I snuffed out the sound,  
I couldn't listen to her,  
Her dictating my choices,  
Didn't seem fair.  
So we got cold chicken nuggets,  
Then we went to the park,  
"This is all of the quiet  
That I told you about".  
She said it wasn't so silent,  
You could hear the soft song,  
Of the highway as it carried  
All its sirens along.  
"Recount me your day",  
I wanted to hear,  
What was guiding their way,  
What lead them to here.  
I got a story of a brother  
Stuck in a hospital bed,  
And I was getting the gist,  
But forgot what she said.  
I didn't want dinner tonight,  
So she ate all the food,  
She seemed sorry for it,  
But I told her she could.  
And we walked the way back,  
And reached our junction at last,  
I was speechless for words,  
Our conjunctions didn't come out so fast.  
And so I wished her farewell,  
And I bid her goodnight,  
But she wouldn't just leave,  
Not without starting a fight.  
"Won't you ask for my contact?  
Can I see you again‽",  
"If I run into you twice,  
Guess we'll see to it then".  
