---
tags: ['Funeral Eyes']
title: Chapter 2
date: 2023-05-03
---

I paid the blood-tax of the cough every day. I suppose that somewhere my doctor had a bloodwork balance-sheet; there existed a little tracker of how much debt my blood was in, and how long until I no longer qualified for a loan. A perfectly columned paper, spangled with little red deductions, counting down towards my death. I was on borrowed time, and was night-bankrupt with blood, ready to go black and curdle. The doctor was a temporary peace but constant anxiety. When I saw her, I would be calm, briefly. But every time she left, I would feel the brunt of her departure every second until our next encounter.

She had a ritual with me like none other. Sporadic visits, marked with sporadic decisions, and seemingly random questionnaires I had to fill. "Do you have any history of...", I am ***living*** this history, what fool dotes on a question that can be answered by any pair of untrained eyes. Nevertheless, it gave me some comfort telling her the things that she had long-since known already. It gave me some comfort for her to hear my moaning chest with that stethoscope that was always the perfect measure of cold on my bare skin. It gave me some comfort for us to pretend that she had any doubt she would hear something other than my chest slowly caving in under its own pressure.

She pretended that although it was the end, so definitively, that the chance for second wind was still very much up in the air. But the wind is not like a cough, the wind starts, and stops, at its own whim. The wind blows as it pleases, and freezes at its own convenience. Nevertheless, my doctor was a comfort, and her play-pretend gave me something less dismal to look forward to. I would hardly say that I loved her, but I felt that she watched over me, as someone who loves me might.

Because I always felt watched. And it wasn't just a feeling. There was evidence, scattered, interspersed into the story. Hazel, that is her name, in her many visits to check on my condition and put me in better humours had seen a great deal, and heard a great deal. For much time she kept this near-omniscience secret from me. As our final departure drew closer, she seemed more inclined to be open about her knowledge, to give *the watched* a chance to watch *the watcher*.

It started off innocent, she heard mention of me in the walls of St. Augustine. She saw me portrayed in the stained-glass windows. But slowly it seems that Hazel's curiosity was tainted and it took her from a harmless observer to a *watcher*. A blasted source of paranoia, the cause of the need for eyes on the back of my head. For if I am not there to watch the watcher's gaze away, how is anyone to know where to she has spirited away?

I'm sure that this is a hard-to-follow reasoning, and I must apologise for it. It is a difficult recount on my part as well, on account of the fear, or distress, or whatever else it was that I had felt. Allow me, a second chance, as I begin earlier on in the tale: one winter night I mentioned to Hazel, that I was tired of the cough. That the cough was a reminder of the sweltering summer, a heat that overstayed its welcome by many months. And so she obtained for me a cough suppressant. To suppress what is allegedly known as a 'productive cough' is a dangerous thing. Coughs such as mine exist to rid some horror from your airways (tuberculosis being an exceptionably scary horror). But despite how fickle kindling this hearth was, and how poorly it could end, I was primed for one final attempt.

This medicine was stronger than what I had been given before: it contained the potency to sing the ill to slumber for four short hours, though never expunge it entirely. But for those four hours, I was entirely free, entirely weightless. Ironically, as if I were ghost, not from having died, but from having shed death itself from my mortal husk. I had thinned my doses throughout the remainder of my winter, coveting more the ability to restore my breathing than the breath that was reclaimed. Sometimes it is more use to know that one can have something if they so choose, than to have the thing itself.

I had made liberal use of my cough-terminating syrup to stroll amongst the foxtails in the meadow. I had shoes and so harboured no avoidance for those thorny bushes, and was the wrong breed to be affected anyways. For it is the case that I am neither fox, nor hound. I am no canid at all. I haven't the teeth, and I haven't the loyalty, for my roaming although loosely directed towards the willow at the edge of the grounds had no clear direction or motive. I was more feline than I was a fox, or dog. I was more leo, than vulpes. Dogs are easy to follow. After a single sighting one knows to expect them again, and again. They are to be at the same time, at the same place, for the same reason, and sometimes continue to haunt past their motive's extinction. But cats? They are a tricky target, always shifting in mood and desire. They are dynamic through time, unlike the stubborn hounds that resist change. To chase a cat, one has to watch closely, and carefully. Chasing a dog requires nobody in particular, but chasing a cat... well, that required *a watcher*.

I saw Hazel again, the evening after, for one of our impromptu checkups (though, I suppose impromptu and checkup are antonymous?). It went as all the previous checkups -- which is to say not at all. But the coda to this visit was something that loomed closer to a sinister essence than a doctor's aura. She leaned in to divine me: "Why is it, dear, that your footsteps strayed away from the willow. The one that you meet in habit. Does there exist something to separate you from the tree, perhaps your fading health?".

She robbed not only my present words, but my intent to speak to her entirely. Although, as a cat, I was inflicted with more curiosity than even Faust would bargain for. And so I sought to make a pact with the devil herself, "And how is it you know that I find myself inseparable from this tree?".

And though the question was not only fair, but necessary, to have asked, she didn't budge on the answer. She never confirmed, nor denied, that she was watching. But I knew she was watching. I would see her on occasion. She was a teeming of eyes in the darkness. She was the possibility for something where I hoped nothing should be. She was every worry that every place I wasn't looking carried a gaze, pointed directly at me. I wished to rid her of those hazel eyes. I wished to scoop them out, and keep them in a jar. That way I would know, and choose, exactly what it is that they were directed at. There wouldn't be any doubt, not anymore. But unfortunately for I, and fortunately for her, I was not in the business of violence.

We sat in complete silence for the rest of that visit, enveloped in our utter lack of vocabulary. And though with each subsequent meeting, the need to be quiet lifted slightly, it never diminished to a nullity. It never fully faded. I was always a little paranoid of her. And she was always a little wary of me. She would tell me details of my life that I would think no one extraneous to them would know, and I would be at a loss to deny them. For how can you deny statements of fact, witnessed by eyes deserving or a jar on your shelf?

It is my belief that the answer is: one can't, not without removing and bottling them with one's own hands.