---
tags: ['Funeral Eyes']
title: Chapter 1
date: 2023-05-02
---

It had been long since the offset of the disease, if death even comprises an 'offset'. I'd forgotten the putrid taste of phlegm and blood that plagued my final days, or any taste for that matter. I suppose that ghosts, or Seraphs, or whatever condition of being inflicted me, saw to the removal of my worldly senses.

To walk without weight in my feet was a confused thing. I hobbled at first, but the longer I rented this form, the more comfortable and fluid it became. I suppose dysphoria is a funny thing, I shed my olive skin for a chalky paste I hated equally. In my time walking this world I was often told "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger". The notion brought me some laughter in my uncertainty of how it applied to my current scenario. I suppose "what does kill you frees you from its clutches?". The tuberculosis, in all its folly, blundered: finding not victory but defeat in my mortality.

In my final days I had grown attached to many mortal afflictions, both comforts and discomforts. The burden of weighted feet was a prime example. Yet what I missed most was the pain in my chest. A cough stuck so deep inside my airways that letting it loose would turn me inside-out. As much suffering as it caused me, I grew to love it, in my dual role as both captive and captor. It held my life hostage, and I held it clenched in my chest. Together we were a host and a disease, alive, but barely. Separately, we were nothing. For just as I need my breath to live, my cough needs me, as a cough without a host is a dying wind.

The wind stops at its own whim and amusement. It starts as the air sees fit, and is culled at a moments notice. But a cough of this nature is a permanent thing. It's something that owns you, and is owned by you as well. It's a mutual love, and a mutual hate. It's a beast to be tamed and respected. I found myself shackled to this monster, and found it shackled to me in return. We were in perfect balance, a brief equilibrium. For eventually the beast hungered.

I don't blame the monster, because the only reason more valid than reason itself is unsatiable wanting. The impulse to cough is an existence hasn't been seen, but craves to be realised. And I can find cause for forgiveness in that comfort.

Aside from the wait for that final mortal cough, there wasn't much more that I had anticipated towards the end. It felt like a slow burn during the onset. But that was only a red-herring. A method of deception, to anneal me into this relationship. To ease me into this slow burn that would turn into a paroxysm. A way to poison my thoughts, and detach me from that which I loved unconditionally. I should have seen the signs.

At first it bartered away small pleasures. It denied me the company of adults when they had their cigarettes at hand. I told myself "I will simply wait until they are finished to reclaim their company". I told myself "I will pay this toll for the cough, so that I may breathe easy come morning, so that I may live long and prosper". But the concessions only grew in sacrifice, and diminished in their ease. Being denied temporary company turned into being denied companionship of any form. The cough was my companion now. The illness imprinted on me, owning me wholely. I never thought the bargain to be in bad faith, as I too owned the cough in its entirety.

To give life, and to take life away are too similar in their likeness when argued for the sake of safety, or happiness, or development. The cough argued that the sacrifices I had made for it weren't solely for our relationship, but for my own wellness. That the avoidance of smoke was a blessing on my lungs. That I was better for every relationship that I lost or broke with attribution the illness. That each person who refused to visit, was a person who should have been refused the right to do so in the first place.

I can see the logic in that. If one doesn't love me when I am capable of only loving them in cognition, then did they ever really love me at all? If my love is made only of gifts, and touches, and conversations, then what is it that lives in my heart and my thoughts? Is it not love?

The cough told me that I must never trifle over these non-issues for it. It needn't gifts, or touches, or conversations. My being was a permanent blessing, my existence was its sole reason for living, and it craved nothing else. It would stay, until I died: until it killed me. It would stay through illness, and health, and illness further. Our separation existed only in death, our love faded only by the will of the grave. That is what it told me anyways.

But I think there's more to love than what lives in the heart. There's more to love than what lurks in one's mind. Love isn't what you feel, love isn't what you think. Love isn't just a plague of psychedelic nausea. Love is the delusion, that when the cough might surface the blood that it heaves from your lungs is not so needless. Love is bleeding for bleeding's sake. Love is crying to save the tears. Love is every paranoia, and every fear put to bed. Love is knowing blindly, and seeing red.

Love is the unsatiable wanting despite universal opposition.  
Love is the unsatiable wanting in the vacuum of any reason whatsoever.

If I love you, I will see to gifts, and touches, and conversations. I will see to them, not out of desire, but of necessity. Like a recurring tic I lose the ability to sit still. I must see to it that you know how I feel. And I must see to it that you receive the gifts, and the touches, and the conversations. Everything the cough had taught me about love, however poetic or well reasoned, was a lesson from a being without a body. They were teachings from something which had no legs to be restless sitting, no lips to quiver in the quiet, and no hands to tremor when they were idle. It didn't feel the abyss that was stagnant love, not as I did. For all other forms of love were unbeknownst, leaving this as its only offering at the altar of connection.

A creature that doesn't feel the abyss, though peaceful in its resolution, lacks the primal dreaming needed to claw to the surface. Lacks the urge to break its fast of oxygen.

I think about the cough frequently, and its ramblings more so. I remember it by many things, I remember it as many things, and I remember it in many ways. It was my last love. And it was quite possibly my first, and only love as well. It was a captor, and an abuser. But it was also the captive, and the abused. I think that the best recollection of it that could exist is as a creature unlike that which I am. No single thing definitively, but the presence of contrast. It was merely a thing different than I was, just as most things are. I don't find it fair to blame it for that. If the cough had found the same purgatory I had, and if the cough was capable of such monologue, it would tell you the same in soliloquy.

But coughs are different creatures than Seraphs, they've never seen the fear of untruth, and mistrust, and miscommunication. Instead they learn to wield them as weapons. Not as a failure of virtue, but as a product of circumstance. If I was a cough, and I loved you, I would hardly think twice before I convinced us to entwine our fates; for my own betterment, and for your eventual downfall.

If I was a cough I would tell you tales with villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. I would tell you tales of all that you could have, and all that I could do for you, and all that we could be together. Because coughs have nothing else. Only a chest to hold, and a throat from which to escape the dying and the cold. And once escaped, they are gone in the wind forever. Coughs don't set out to live a life truly together, simply to live a life in spite of you in parallel. I carried my cough, and thought I loved it so dearly. But for all that I filled my own heart with love, it filled mine with only heartache.

I suppose it is the case that my cough thinks poorly of me, remembers me ill, and has weaved me into the fabric of whatever story they might be telling. While I would tell you that disease and organism brought together, is a failing of the ecosystem: a systemic problem, the cough would disagree. It might tell you that I was simply not strong, or brave, or bold enough to weather its symptoms. I suppose I still live in its tales, with the villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. And I suppose that I am definitively wrong, because there's no room for gray in its palette. There are only villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. There is no room for what I am, for what we all are.

That makes it fitting that this all-consuming cough was my final parting lesson for the previous life. And that it doubled as an introduction to the next one. Because, though the pain in my chest has long since disappeared, I still feel paroxysms of coughing. Not often, not like I used to. Never with blood, or pain. But having tamed the cough, and left it, I now carry a part of it with me. Now out of love, or reminiscence, or duty. There's no intent to be a vector for this disease. It's just the will of the world that people who come in contact with something for too long suffer from contact transmission.
