---
tags: ['Funeral Eyes']
title: Funeral Eyes
date: 2023-05-04
---

__Preface__

I, **'Funeral Eyes'**, loved to loiter on the St. Augustine rooftop, as if playing god. I often wondered when the priest pointed upwards, as if to heaven, if ever he pointed at where I was.

The roof was tiled with stone: small slabs of corrugated slate, as if warped by the bursts of heat and sudden snow storms; folded over themselves by the abusive mountain weather. The roof was pointed, with two faces joining at one edge, gesturing upwards to the sky. There was a weathervane accompanying the spire atop it all. A pretty thing, that spun on occasion; plastered to a metal frame that twirled too often for its seldom audience.

The cathedral was large, disproportionately so for the few and far between that graced it with their presence. It never found itself full, but likewise, was never fully empty either. Visitors were drawn there, not by force of habit, but by single occasions. There were few residents of the Sunday mass, and few subscribers to the sermons. What pulled the crowd was the graveyard, and the odd wedding. The size of the cemetary eclipsed that of the cathedral itself many times over. Somehow still, it still seemed adequately proportional when contrasted to its surrogate. I suppose, such was the nature of this place.

For the few regulars this cursed place saw, few found home within its walls. There was the priest, and there were the help staff: gardeners, and miscellaneous personnel dotted sparsely throughout the living quarters. And there was also me. The presence of the others made enough sense, but I think my existence here was quite apt given what lived (or rather, lived no longer) upon the grounds. I was lacking a room, or a shelter from the snow, but weather didn't bother me. There was no hot, and no cold for me, not really. When it rained, or it snowed, the water and ice would pass me through like light diffracting in a prism.

I was less a resident, and more a permanent distortion perched on the roof, like a self-indulgent hallucination. I missed my bed downstairs, well, I suppose it's no longer *my* bed -- but I missed it all the same. Although some might find it funny that one can miss a bed, past when they have lost the ability to sleep, or to dream for that matter. When one no longer needs to close their eyes. When one ceases to exist in the presence of a sunray. When the ultraviolet of the morning light is an eraser on the papyrus of existence.

I only exist at night. I only exist when the moon is dim enough not to run me through, but radiant enough to grant me my palid ghast of an existence. I dolled away the time, and grew in apathy with its passing. Time was less concrete in this reality. It was less something real, and more a medium that facilitated change. No longer measured in seconds, hours, or even days. It was the idea that the candles would shorten to a stump, and be replaced by a lonely stick of beeswax. It was measured in the volume of headstones that found themselves punctuating the graveyard, in ever increasing number.

I'm not sure what put me here. And I'm not sure of the purpose. I'm not even certain there is a *what* or a *why*. But my best guess is that I'm here to watch everything happen. The living are tasked to watch to living kin, and the dead are tasked to watch their kin, as I have been tasked.

My best explanation is that I am nothing but a pair of *funeral eyes*, and so that is the name that I have chosen.

---

__Chapter 1__

It had been long since the offset of the disease, if death even comprises an 'offset'. I'd forgotten the putrid taste of phlegm and blood that plagued my final days, or any taste for that matter. I suppose that ghosts, or Seraphs, or whatever condition of being inflicted me, saw to the removal of my worldly senses.

To walk without weight in my feet was a confused thing. I hobbled at first, but the longer I rented this form, the more comfortable and fluid it became. I suppose dysphoria is a funny thing, I shed my olive skin for a chalky paste I hated equally. In my time walking this world I was often told "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger". The notion brought me some laughter in my uncertainty of how it applied to my current scenario. I suppose "what does kill you frees you from its clutches?". The tuberculosis, in all its folly, blundered: finding not victory but defeat in my mortality.

In my final days I had grown attached to many mortal afflictions, both comforts and discomforts. The burden of weighted feet was a prime example. Yet what I missed most was the pain in my chest. A cough stuck so deep inside my airways that letting it loose would turn me inside-out. As much suffering as it caused me, I grew to love it, in my dual role as both captive and captor. It held my life hostage, and I held it clenched in my chest. Together we were a host and a disease, alive, but barely. Separately, we were nothing. For just as I need my breath to live, my cough needs me, as a cough without a host is a dying wind.

The wind stops at its own whim and amusement. It starts as the air sees fit, and is culled at a moments notice. But a cough of this nature is a permanent thing. It's something that owns you, and is owned by you as well. It's a mutual love, and a mutual hate. It's a beast to be tamed and respected. I found myself shackled to this monster, and found it shackled to me in return. We were in perfect balance, a brief equilibrium. For eventually the beast hungered.

I don't blame the monster, because the only reason more valid than reason itself is unsatiable wanting. The impulse to cough is an existence hasn't been seen, but craves to be realised. And I can find cause for forgiveness in that comfort.

Aside from the wait for that final mortal cough, there wasn't much more that I had anticipated towards the end. It felt like a slow burn during the onset. But that was only a red-herring. A method of deception, to anneal me into this relationship. To ease me into this slow burn that would turn into a paroxysm. A way to poison my thoughts, and detach me from that which I loved unconditionally. I should have seen the signs.

At first it bartered away small pleasures. It denied me the company of adults when they had their cigarettes at hand. I told myself "I will simply wait until they are finished to reclaim their company". I told myself "I will pay this toll for the cough, so that I may breathe easy come morning, so that I may live long and prosper". But the concessions only grew in sacrifice, and diminished in their ease. Being denied temporary company turned into being denied companionship of any form. The cough was my companion now. The illness imprinted on me, owning me wholely. I never thought the bargain to be in bad faith, as I too owned the cough in its entirety.

To give life, and to take life away are too similar in their likeness when argued for the sake of safety, or happiness, or development. The cough argued that the sacrifices I had made for it weren't solely for our relationship, but for my own wellness. That the avoidance of smoke was a blessing on my lungs. That I was better for every relationship that I lost or broke with attribution the illness. That each person who refused to visit, was a person who should have been refused the right to do so in the first place.

I can see the logic in that. If one doesn't love me when I am capable of only loving them in cognition, then did they ever really love me at all? If my love is made only of gifts, and touches, and conversations, then what is it that lives in my heart and my thoughts? Is it not love?

The cough told me that I must never trifle over these non-issues for it. It needn't gifts, or touches, or conversations. My being was a permanent blessing, my existence was its sole reason for living, and it craved nothing else. It would stay, until I died: until it killed me. It would stay through illness, and health, and illness further. Our separation existed only in death, our love faded only by the will of the grave. That is what it told me anyways.

But I think there's more to love than what lives in the heart. There's more to love than what lurks in one's mind. Love isn't what you feel, love isn't what you think. Love isn't just a plague of psychedelic nausea. Love is the delusion, that when the cough might surface the blood that it heaves from your lungs is not so needless. Love is bleeding for bleeding's sake. Love is crying to save the tears. Love is every paranoia, and every fear put to bed. Love is knowing blindly, and seeing red.

Love is the unsatiable wanting despite universal opposition.  
Love is the unsatiable wanting in the vacuum of any reason whatsoever.

If I love you, I will see to gifts, and touches, and conversations. I will see to them, not out of desire, but of necessity. Like a recurring tic I lose the ability to sit still. I must see to it that you know how I feel. And I must see to it that you receive the gifts, and the touches, and the conversations. Everything the cough had taught me about love, however poetic or well reasoned, was a lesson from a being without a body. They were teachings from something which had no legs to be restless sitting, no lips to quiver in the quiet, and no hands to tremor when they were idle. It didn't feel the abyss that was stagnant love, not as I did. For all other forms of love were unbeknownst, leaving this as its only offering at the altar of connection.

A creature that doesn't feel the abyss, though peaceful in its resolution, lacks the primal dreaming needed to claw to the surface. Lacks the urge to break its fast of oxygen.

I think about the cough frequently, and its ramblings more so. I remember it by many things, I remember it as many things, and I remember it in many ways. It was my last love. And it was quite possibly my first, and only love as well. It was a captor, and an abuser. But it was also the captive, and the abused. I think that the best recollection of it that could exist is as a creature unlike that which I am. No single thing definitively, but the presence of contrast. It was merely a thing different than I was, just as most things are. I don't find it fair to blame it for that. If the cough had found the same purgatory I had, and if the cough was capable of such monologue, it would tell you the same in soliloquy.

But coughs are different creatures than Seraphs, they've never seen the fear of untruth, and mistrust, and miscommunication. Instead they learn to wield them as weapons. Not as a failure of virtue, but as a product of circumstance. If I was a cough, and I loved you, I would hardly think twice before I convinced us to entwine our fates; for my own betterment, and for your eventual downfall.

If I was a cough I would tell you tales with villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. I would tell you tales of all that you could have, and all that I could do for you, and all that we could be together. Because coughs have nothing else. Only a chest to hold, and a throat from which to escape the dying and the cold. And once escaped, they are gone in the wind forever. Coughs don't set out to live a life truly together, simply to live a life in spite of you in parallel. I carried my cough, and thought I loved it so dearly. But for all that I filled my own heart with love, it filled mine with only heartache.

I suppose it is the case that my cough thinks poorly of me, remembers me ill, and has weaved me into the fabric of whatever story they might be telling. While I would tell you that disease and organism brought together, is a failing of the ecosystem: a systemic problem, the cough would disagree. It might tell you that I was simply not strong, or brave, or bold enough to weather its symptoms. I suppose I still live in its tales, with the villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. And I suppose that I am definitively wrong, because there's no room for gray in its palette. There are only villains, and heroes, and moral absolutism. There is no room for what I am, for what we all are.

That makes it fitting that this all-consuming cough was my final parting lesson for the previous life. And that it doubled as an introduction to the next one. Because, though the pain in my chest has long since disappeared, I still feel paroxysms of coughing. Not often, not like I used to. Never with blood, or pain. But having tamed the cough, and left it, I now carry a part of it with me. Now out of love, or reminiscence, or duty. There's no intent to be a vector for this disease. It's just the will of the world that people who come in contact with something for too long suffer from contact transmission.

---

__Chapter 2__

I paid the blood-tax of the cough every day. I suppose that somewhere my doctor had a bloodwork balance-sheet; there existed a little tracker of how much debt my blood was in, and how long until I no longer qualified for a loan. A perfectly columned paper, spangled with little red deductions, counting down towards my death. I was on borrowed time, and was nigh-bankrupt with blood, ready to go black and curdle. The doctor was a temporary peace but constant anxiety. When I saw her, I would be calm, briefly. But every time she left, I would feel the brunt of her departure every second until our next encounter.

She had a ritual with me like none other. Sporadic visits, marked with sporadic decisions, and seemingly random questionnaires I had to fill. "Do you have any history of...", I am ***living*** this history, what fool dotes on a question that can be answered by any pair of untrained eyes. Nevertheless, it gave me some comfort telling her the things that she had long-since known already. It gave me some comfort for her to hear my moaning chest with that stethoscope that was always the perfect measure of cold on my bare skin. It gave me some comfort for us to pretend that she had any doubt she would hear something other than my chest slowly caving in under its own pressure.

She pretended that although it was the end, so definitively, that the chance for second wind was still very much up in the air. But the wind is not like a cough, the wind starts, and stops, at its own whim. The wind blows as it pleases, and freezes at its own convenience. Nevertheless, my doctor was a comfort, and her play-pretend gave me something less dismal to look forward to. I would hardly say that I loved her, but I felt that she watched over me, as someone who loves me might.

Because I always felt watched. And it wasn't just a feeling. There was evidence, scattered, interspersed into the story. Hazel, that is her name, in her many visits to check on my condition and put me in better humours had seen a great deal, and heard a great deal. For much time she kept this near-omniscience secret from me. As our final departure drew closer, she seemed more inclined to be open about her knowledge, to give *The Watched* a chance to watch *The Watcher*.

It started off innocent, she heard mention of me in the walls of St. Augustine. She saw me portrayed in the stained-glass windows. But slowly it seems that Hazel's curiosity was tainted and it took her from a harmless observer to a *watcher*. A blasted source of paranoia, the cause of the need for eyes on the back of my head. For if I am not there to watch The Watcher's gaze away, how is anyone to know where to she has spirited away?

I'm sure that this is a hard-to-follow reasoning, and I must apologise for it. It is a difficult recount on my part as well, on account of the fear, or distress, or whatever else it was that I had felt. Allow me, a second chance, as I begin earlier on in the tale: one late-autumn night I mentioned to Hazel, that I was tired of the cough. That the cough was a reminder in my chest of the sweltering summer. It was a heat that overstayed its welcome by many months. And so she obtained for me a cough suppressant. To suppress what is allegedly known as a 'productive cough' is a dangerous thing. Coughs such as mine exist to rid some horror from your airways (tuberculosis being an exceptionably scary horror). But despite how fickle kindling this hearth was, and how poorly it could end, I was primed for one final attempt.

This medicine was stronger than what I had been given before: it contained the potency to sing the ill to slumber for four short hours, though never expunge it in its entirety. But for those four hours bursts, I was entirely free, entirely weightless. Ironically, as if I were ghost, not from having died, but from having shed death itself from my mortal husk. I had thinned my doses throughout the remainder of my winter, coveting more the ability to restore my breathing than the breath that was reclaimed. Sometimes it is more use to know that one can have something if they so choose, than to have the thing itself.

I had made liberal use of my cough-terminating syrup to stroll amongst the foxtails in the meadow. I had shoes and so harboured no avoidance for those thorny bushes, and was the wrong breed to be affected anyways. For it is the case that I am neither fox, nor hound. I am no canid at all. I haven't the teeth, and I haven't the loyalty, for my roaming although loosely directed towards the willow at the edge of the grounds had no clear direction or motive. I was more feline than I was a fox, or dog. I was more leo, than vulpes. Dogs are easy to follow. After a single sighting one knows to expect them again, and again. They are to be at the same time, at the same place, for the same reason, and sometimes continue to haunt past their motive's extinction. But cats? They are a tricky target, always shifting in mood and desire. They are dynamic through time, unlike the stubborn hounds that resist change. To chase a cat, one has to watch closely, and carefully. Chasing a dog requires nobody in particular, but chasing a cat... well, that requires *The Watcher*.

I saw Hazel again, the evening after, for one of our impromptu checkups (though, I suppose impromptu and checkup are antonymous?). It went as all the previous checkups -- which is to say not at all. But the coda to this visit was something that loomed closer to a sinister essence than a doctor's aura. She leaned in to divine me: "Why is it, dear, that your footsteps strayed away from the willow. The one that you meet in habit. Does there exist something to separate you from the tree, perhaps your fading health?".

She robbed not only my present words, but my intent to speak to her entirely. Although, as a cat, I was inflicted with more curiosity than even Faust would bargain for. And so I sought to make a pact with the devil herself, "And how is it you know that I find myself inseparable from this tree?".

And though the question was not only fair, but necessary, to have asked, she didn't budge on the answer. She never confirmed, nor denied, her status as The Watcher. But I knew that she was watching. I would see her on occasion. She was a teeming of eyes in the darkness. She was the possibility for something where I hoped nothing would be. She was every worry that every place I wasn't looking carried a gaze, pointed directly at me. I wished to rid her of those hazel eyes. I wished to scoop them out, and keep them in a jar. That way I would know, and choose, exactly what it is that they were directed at. There wouldn't be any doubt, not anymore. But unfortunately for I, and fortunately for her, I was not in the business of violence.

We sat in complete silence for the rest of that visit, enveloped in our utter lack of vocabulary. And though with each subsequent meeting, the need to be quiet lifted slightly, it never diminished to a nullity. It never fully faded. I was always a little paranoid of her. And she was always a little wary of me. She would tell me details of my life that I would think no one extraneous to them would know, and I would be at a loss to deny them. For how can you deny statements of fact, witnessed by eyes deserving or a jar on your shelf?

It is my belief that the answer is: one can't, not without removing and bottling those eyes with one's own hands.

---

__Chapter 3__

Father Breton was a particular fellow. He indulged the few visitors of the church in his weekly sermons. And though the pews were sparsely scattered with people, they were densely packed with regard for the man they believed him to be. He seemed a pleasant fellow towards most of the congregation. *Seemed* being the keyword in that notion. For really, he was a deeply troubled man, with a deeply trouble composition. In the eyes of St. Augustine, he was a calm and collected individual, not predisposed to any rage or any violence. But had St. Augustine known him more intimately, as I did, then it would know better than to think such fallacious things.

He passed himself off as an open book, but really he was a journal under lock and key, keeping his secrets well under the guise of his title as 'Father'. He slept easy, unlike I, knowing that none would think ill of him, unless he had let them. I was one of those permitted to see him in that light. In the unwavering and hellish beam of truth. I wrestled with the thought that he got more peace than me each night, even though second of that peace was far less deserved than any other soul to grace this roof.

Cruel as he was, there were little moments that humanized him. Brief lapses of time where I thought 'how awful could he possibly be'. Moments like these were rare when detached form context, but there were correlations between the happenings here and his brief kindnesses. For wicked as his composure, he genuinely held some sympathy for my declining wellbeing. The cough was not only a thorn inside of my chest, but a thorn inside of his. For as little as he worried about, as little as he cared about everything, he struggled to watch the sick. My pain was airborne, but the resultant pain that found him was borne of sympathy. Of whatever little sympathy  he had.

And though he felt, genuinely so, for my illness from time to time, it disturbed a beastly wrath inside him. Under all of the niceties and favour, there was a persistent and undying anger. To the fortune of those who had orbit him, these outbursts of indignation spewed seldom. But to the misfortune of them, of us, when we saw the rage, we saw it in droves and spades. It wasn't an annoyance, no. It ran deeper than that. It was more vital, and imbued with more vigor than any anger I'd seen before (and maybe more so than any anger I will have ever seen).

In a funny trick of fate, I was the most common recipient of his unpleasantness. Though perhaps fitting, as my illness was also the most common cause of it. Still yet, one should not share his frustrations by inflicting forced empathy onto others. These feelings aren't a rabid thing, one must not be compelled to bite and spread their bad humour to others. To be in low spirits is one thing, but to anchor the spirits of others **is** a failure of virtue, if ever I have seen one.

Hazel was the other frequent visitor to his outbursts. She was after all, the bearer of bad news to a man who insisted on shooting the messenger. Unlike me, however, he had no claim to hit the doctor, and so she received no bruises, or gashes due to his instability. Nevertheless he erupted, in harsh language, and profanity at her. They fought often, though I suppose 'fight' implies a mutual thing. This conflict flowed only one way. With him yelling and unloading a knife block worth of paragraphs attacking her character, and he nodding quietly. She understood that though she was the receiver of these words, that she wasn't to take them to heart, as they were not aimed at her. She was merely standing between the marksman and his target.

In my final summer, I grew too weak to withstand any abuse of a physical delivery (and Hazel had learned to escape before she became the sink for his frustration). I no longer healed quickly enough to consistently damage, and so I was still covered in black and blue from the previous weeks. In his inability to strike me, he had less of a sink for his anger than he had a source: so he sought new routes of administration. Being a stubborn theist, he focused on my complete and utter disbelief in a higher power as a premise for war.

The hurt found in his words far outweighed the pain found inside the body. The last time he had struck me he held no remorse or restraint, but yet still, the damage of his sentences were without equal. I made a choice, unwise in hindsight, to pick a fight with the man at the start of the summer. I awoke one night to him reading me my last rites, a ritual I had specifically intended to deny him, and he was privy to that fact. So without thinking, steeped in a fraction of the anger that he clung onto, I lashed out, "By your holy decree, may you put me in the earth where I belong, detached from your wanton violence. Give that peacemaker that never sees action a life anew. For why must I wait out my final days, when we have a one-way ticket to him in your quarters?"

"I think that you haven't seen sufferance enough. If it were my decree I would shoot you in the foot, and see you nursed back to health. Time, and time again. Until not the bullet, and not the bloodless, took you from this realm. But the lead poisoning consumed you. My final grant to you would be these bullets, at monthly intervals. To rob you of your feet, to have you limp through the little life that you have left on the St. Augustine plains: completely unable to enjoy it".

Time passed and we neared the offset of the summer. He often taunted me in that time, but I found (or ill-found) bravery in the fact that I could not be struck without risking death. He found me, in prayer then. I wouldn't pray often, but I felt as if there was nothing wasted with a little indulgence in the ritual. What else was I to wile away the day with, an infinite stay in bed, waiting for the dark to creep? Having caught me in the act, he decided I was due for a taunting. And so started her, "and who, or what, is it that you pray to, you godless girl and dismal heathen?".

I snapped back with more courage than intended: "I pray to the ghosts in remission, so as to extend the strings of the earth, so they may grab on to haunt you as a parting present. So they may linger a little longer, and stalk a little closer, so they may evoke the misery in you that you summon inside of me".

"Ghosts are not for this mortal world, they are for heaven, and hell, and purgatory to keep. Only a fool, such as you, would seek to remove them from their rightful place, from their birthright. Reserve your prayer, for it is botched, and you are unworthy of the divine".

"Heaven is only a rightful place for the dead, so long as they can rain down on you the unhappiness which you so duly deserve. So long as they reign over your paranoia of the extraterrestrial. So long as they lurk at the bottom of your thoughts. I know that there are ghosts in the walls, I can feel their breathe in the wind that has no open windows from which to source or escape. I can feel their hands in my sudden losses of balance in the halls. And I hope that you feel them more directly. I hope that you, Breton, feel them not in presence, but in possession".

"Sweetheart, these are vengeful words for someone with too short a to live. One foot in the grave is enough cause not to indulge in such fantasies of revenge. I hope that you may see them gone, before I see you departed".

"Father, for one which such an all-consuming fear of the divine, you have much stubbornness in your sinning. I hope the irony of that isn't lost on you, for I know that this paradox is a cause for laughter in heaven, and hell alike. I can hear the devil chuckle, and its subject matter is what you stir up in what have left you of a brain".

Father Breton had no riposte to this. His face was wiped clean entirely, to hide whatever mania underpinned it. It wasn't often that I saw him so defeated. I almost felt bad, but only *almost*. I had a newfound broken vigor in me, like that of a hunter that had slain a mighty beast. He, however, was no mighty beast. He was a weak-willed and feeble man, too caught up in his reservations of morality to accept anything other. And too caught up in his need for others to feel his anger to let them live in peace.

He dragged himself out of the empty nave, leaving only me to keep the room company. I had no pity or guilt as remainder from the encounter, though when I returned to the rosary, I prayed that he might have the latter. Pity is not needed for me, as pity is directed to those so afflicted with their own misery, that they needn't life give them any to feel it in full. Pity is for those who hurt themselves. And guilt is for those who are hurt by others. I only asked he feel guilty for me, as he is the jailer of my peace on this placid night. He is the robbing of the little tendrils of moonlight, splashing through the stained-glass windows. He is what takes this nave from an oasis of air, with a school of gorgeous squid overhead, and turns it into an eldritch horror. In his proximity, this place is at the bottom of the ocean truly, completely empty of air. And by his commandment, the tranquil squids orbiting overhead turned into the mouth of Cthulhu, as he descended to devour this world.
